Let's start with a regular bag of words model.
If you think about the Bag of Words model graphically,
it represents the relationship between a set of
document objects and a set of word objects.
It's very simple. Let's say we've got an article like this
one and we look at what words are in that article.
We'll assume that we do the correct stemming and text
processing so that we only look at the important words.
So this article has three words namely space, vote and explore.
The word space appears twice,
the word vote appears once and the word explore or it's
related words like exploration appears three times.
To find the probabilities of each word appearing in the article,
we divide by the total number of words and we get some probabilities.
This gives us three parameters.
Now to add some notation, we call documents d,
our words or terms t and the parameters
are precisely the probability of a word appearing in the documents,
so that is P of t given d. Specifically this parameter say,
for any given document d and observed term t.
How likely is it that the document d generated the term t?
So now we do this for a bunch of documents and a bunch of words.
We draw all these probabilities. And let's have a quiz.
Let's say we have 500 documents and 1000 unique words.
How many parameters are in this model?
Enter your answer below.